# A Brief Introduction to British and American Cultures

> 美国制衡原则 图 拍照 考试

## A General Introduction to the UK

### The names

1. The British Isles -- It is a group of islands off the northwest coast of Europe. The group consists of two main islands, Great Britain and Ireland, and numerous smaller islands in North Atlantic. Of all the islands, the largest one is called Great Britain. The second largest one is Ireland, which is to the west of Great Britain. 

2. Britain -- It is the short form for Great Britain. Officially it should be the Great Britain. 
The island of Great Britain is divided into three parts: England in the south, Scotland in the north and Wales in the Southwest.

3. The United Kingdom – It’s the short form for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It is the part of the British Isles ruled over by the Queen. 

4. England -- England is very important in the UK. Because the importance is so great that English people tend to use the word when they mean Britain. Many foreigners are often confused, so they follow suit. 

### Geography

1. Britain is situated in West Europe and off the northwest coast of Europe.

2. It is  separated from the European continent by the North Sea, the Strait of Dover and the English Channel.

3. Total area:244,820 sq km

**Physiographic features**

lowland zone: south & east
highland zone: north & west

Ben Nevis (highest mountain on the island of Great Britain, 1,343 m)

Lough Neagh (largest lake in the country)

**Three distinct regions in Scotland: **

A.  the Highlands the Grampian Mountains (Ben Nevis)
B.  the Central Lowlands (contains most of the industry and population)
C.  the Southern Uplands	

**England:**

The Pennines (backbone of England)

the Lake District 
      I. Located in northwest coast of England
     II. Lake Windermere (largest lake in England)

the east and southeast (plains)

**Rivers and lakes**

1. The Thames River: London
1. the Severn River: longest river in Britain
1. Lake District: Lake Windermere (largest in England)
1. Lough Neagh (in Northern Ireland): largest lake in UK


### National anthem and flag

God Save the King/Queen

**Union Jack/Union Flag**

The Three Crosses in the flag of the United Kingdom represents the union of England, Scotland and Ireland.

**UK flag – “the Union Jack”**

The current design of the Union Flag dates from the union of Ireland and Great Britain in 1801. It consists of the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of England), edged in white, superimposed on the Cross of St Patrick (patron saint of Ireland), which are superimposed on the Saltire [sæltaiə] X形十字图记 of Saint Andrew (patron saint of Scotland). Wales, however, is not represented in the Union Flag by Wales' patron saint, Saint David.

**Why is the pattern of Union Jack used in some other countries’ national flags?**

Australia and New Zealand, like some other countries, were all former British colonies and are now British Commonwealth members. That’s why the design and colors of Union Jack have been the basis for the national flags of these countries.


### Climate

Generally speaking, the UK has a temperate maritime climate due to the North Atlantic  Current. However, the weather in England is remarkably changeable.

**Features of the weather in Britain**

I. small differences between the  seasons 
   II. many fogs or smogs in winter
   III. many rainy days/ abundant rainfall
   IV. changeability
    In England one can experience almost every kind of weather except the most extreme.
    Effect on the Englishman’s character: It tends to make them cautious and adaptable.


### Natural resources

Coal:  national ownership in 1947
Petroleum: 1965 North Sea, self-sufficient
Forestry…
Fresh water…
Wild life…

**National flowers: **

--- rose for England
--- thistle (蓟) for Scotland
--- daffodil for Wales
--- shamrock for Northern Ireland. 
the national bird: the European robin

## English Language

**Global English**

English is used in over 90 countries as an official or semi-official language.  It is the working language of the UN, NATO, EU and many other international organizations. It is the language used in international aviation, international navigation,  international trade, international tourism, international conferences and international academic journals, etc. It is the language in which Indian parents and black parents in South Africa overwhelmingly wish their children to be educated. It is believed that over one billion people worldwide are currently learning English.

As part of the European Year of Languages (2001), a special survey of European attitudes towards and their use of languages was published. The report confirms that English is the most widely known foreign or second language, with 43% of Europeans claiming they speak it in addition to their mother tongue. Sweden now heads the league table（名次表）of English speakers, with over 89% of the population saying they can speak the language well or very well. What’s more, English is the language rated as most useful to know, with over 77% of Europeans who do not speak English as their first language, rating it as useful. 

We can draw a conclusion that English is becoming more and more important in the 21st century. We must make great efforts to master English well. Only in this way can we communicate with people from other countries and keep up with the rapidly changing world. 

English has become lingua franca（通用语）!

**The  very  beginning  of   English**

1. The development of the English language  can date back to as far as 500BC. 
2. According to historical record, the earliest  language  used  in  Great  Britain  is  Celtic. 
3. In 43 AD , Romans conquered the Great Britain and ruled there for more than 400 years, creating an opportunity for Latin to find its way into Britain and gradually take the place of Celtic as the official language.         

- The history of the English language really started with the arrival of three Germanic tribes who invaded Britain during the 5th century AD. 
- These tribes, the Angles, the Saxons and the Jutes, crossed the North Sea from what today is Denmark and northern Germany. 
                      
- At that time the inhabitants of Britain spoke a Celtic language. 

- But most of the Celtic speakers were pushed west and north by the invaders -- mainly into what is now Wales, Scotland and Ireland.

- Later, people began to use the word “England” to refer to the land occupied by Anglo-Saxons and use the word “English” to refer to their language.

Why wasn’t Celtic incorporated into English?
Because Celtic had no written language.

What are the Celtic languages that survive in Britain today?
Welsh, Scottish Gaelic (e.g. auld lang syne) and Irish Gaelic.

**Old English (449-1066)**

The invading Germanic tribes spoke similar languages, which in Britain developed into what we now call Old English. 

After the Germanic tribes of Angles, Saxons and Jutes had taken control of Britain and settled, the four main dialects of Old English emerged from the Germanic dialects.

The English alphabet appeared between 500 and 700AD. It was adapted from Roman script.

Viking invasions, which began in the 8th century, gave English Scandinavian influence which lasted until the Norman Conquest of 1066.

**Middle English (1066-1489)**

In 1066 William the Conqueror, the Duke of Normandy (part of modern France), invaded and conquered England. 

The new conquerors (called the Normans) brought with them a kind of French, which became the language of the Royal Court and the ruling class. 

For a period there was a kind of linguistic class division, where the lower classes spoke English and the upper classes spoke French.

French for  nobles 

Latin for the church               

English for the common people
                                               

Finally, English won the “language war”.

In 1362, the Parliament opened with English as the language of choice, so English became dominant in Britain again, but with many French words added. This language is called Middle English. 

The Middle English is the blend of Anglo-Saxon, Latin and French which developed in the three centuries after the Norman Conquest.

English in this stage is about 50% Germanic（日耳曼语）(English & Scandinavian) and 50% Romance（罗曼语）(French and Latin).

The Literature in Middle English is trilingual, which is a blend of French, English and Latin.

It was the language of the great poet Chaucer (1340-1400). 

- Geoffrey Chaucer（乔叟）The Canterbury Tales《坎特伯雷故事集》

**Renaissance**

The invention of printing also meant that there was now a common language in print. Books became cheaper and more people learned to read. Printing also brought standardization to English. 

Spelling and grammar became fixed, and the dialect of London, where most publishing houses were, became the standard. In 1604 the first English dictionary was published.

**Some words from other languages**

Greek: geometry  astronomy  botany  
French: comrade     alloy      chocolate          
Spanish: banana   canoe      mosquito                         
Italian:  opera   violin   volcano

Early Modern English developed through the efforts of literary and political writing.
   The development of Early Modern English was heavily influenced by classical usage, the emergence of the university-educated class,  and giants of literature such as Shakespeare.

Hamlet’s famous “To be, or not to be” lines, written in Early Modern English by Shakespeare. 

**Modern English (1801--Present)**

The main difference between Early Modern English and Modern English is vocabulary.

Modern English has much more words, arising from two principal factors: 
 
- the Industrial Revolution and technology created a need for new words; 
- the British Empire at its height covered one quarter of the Earth’s surface, and the English language adopted  foreign words from many countries.

the form of English written and spoken by educated speakers of the language

The style of speech of BBC announcers is usually recognized as Standard English.

Standard English is the most appropriate variety of English for a foreigner learning English to copy.

**Varieties of English**

Today, American English is particularly influential, due to the USA’s dominance of cinema, television, popular music, trade and technology (including the Internet). But there are many other varieties of English around the world, including for example Australian English, New Zealand English, Canadian English, South African English, Indian English.

**British and American English**

Spelling Differences
e.g. centre--center, honour--honor, programme--program
Pronunciation Differences
e.g. kilometer, mobile, missile
Vocabulary Differences
e.g. flat--apartment, lift--elevator, underground--subway

## British Political System

### Monarchy

Constitutional Monarchy

The King or Queen is the personification of the State.

An old-fashioned government
On the basis of constitutional monarchy
Head of state: the king or queen
In practice: the Sovereign reigns, but does not rule. （统而不治；临朝而不理政）

The present Sovereign: 
Queen Elizabeth II since 1952

Prince Charles is the heir to the throne.

**The Power of the Queen**

- Gives effects to all laws as the head of the executive branch of the government  
- May pardon criminal offences and cancel punishments  
- The commander-in-chief of the armed forces and the head of the Church of England  
- Confers all titles of rank, and appoints judges, army officers, governors, bishops and diplomats
- Concludes treaties, declares war, and makes peace with other nations

**The Importance of Monarchy**

1. Effects on public attitude
2. Represents the political continuity and adaptability 
3. A symbol of national unity
4. Preserves the human rights and property

**The Royal Duties**

- Visits many parts of Britain
- Pays state visits to foreign countries
- Tours other Common-wealth countries

**The Constitution**

Britain doesn’t have a constitution written down in a single document. The constitution flows from(出自，来自)6 sources: 

 1) The Royal Prerogatives  皇家特权
 2) Statute Laws  成文法
 3) Common Laws  普通法, 判例法
 4) Conventions  国际公约；惯例
 5) Authoritative Opinions  权威意见
 6) European Union Laws  欧盟法 

Israel and Britain are the only two countries without written constitutions.
英国宪法不是一个具体的法律文本，但实际上其大部分内容还是以成文法的形式出现的，包括由议会通过的法例、法院的判例和国际公约等等。除此之外，英国宪法的法律渊源还包括英国议会惯例和国王特权。

Parliament consists of 3 constituent parts: they must all agree to pass any given legislation

Crown (Official Head) 
House of Lords (the Upper House) 
House of Commons (the Lower House) 

UK: a unitary state
The Parliament at  Westminster (London)
In 1999, Scotland and Wales had their own parliaments
In 2007, Northern Ireland set up its parliament 
UK seems to be moving toward federalism.


### Parliament

**Legislature (立法机关) = Parliament** 

Parliament is the highest legislative authority in the UK – the institution responsible for making and repealing (废除) all the UK laws. It’s also known as the Legislature.
	Function:
   Make all the UK laws; 
   Scrutinize (审查) government policy, administration & expenditure;
   Hear appeals (上诉) in the highest Court of Appeal (最高上诉法院) in Britain;
   Debate the major issues of the day. 

What’s the meaning of “parliament”? 
	(A place for argument and debate)
The word parliament comes from the verb “to parley”, that is, to discuss or talk.

The birth of this term: 
The king occasionally summoned barons （巨头、大亨、贵族） and representatives from counties and towns if he wanted to raise money. 

**The House of Lords**

Red Chamber 红厅 

- Those who were summoned “by name”.
- At first it’s only a gathering of barons and by the 13th century, kings found they couldn’t make ends meet by asking money from this quite small group. 
- And later they widened it to include representatives of counties, cities and towns.

1. Structure:
	About 1100 hereditary （世袭贵族） and life peers or peeresses （终身贵族）
2. Power: 
Review legislation
Propose amendments
Veto （否决） bills according to conventions and operations of the Parliament Acts.


**The House of Commons**

Green Chamber 绿厅

- Representatives of communities
- The Commons quickly gained in political strength and in return they wanted an increasing say (发言权) in what the king was doing. 

Also called the Lower House
659 MPs （议员，任期五年）


**Palace of Westminster **
(Houses of Parliament)

**The Sovereign power**

- Summons the House of Lords 
- Dissolves Parliament 
- Opens each new annual session

**The Monarch -- Official Head of Parliament**

The life of parliament is divided into periods called “sessions” (会期) (A session lasts for 1 year).
The beginning of a new session, called the “State Opening of Parliament” (议会开幕典礼) , takes place in the House of Lords. 
It’s a tradition for the monarch to open Parliament in person.
On the day, the Queen travels from Buckingham Palace to Parliament in the State Coach (典礼马车, a golden carriage).
Once the Queen arrives at Parliament, the Union Flag is lowered and replaced by the Royal Standard. 

**The Union Flag  a.k.a.（亦称）The Union Jack**



### Government  (Cabinet)



### Political Parties



### General Election


### American Political System

Federal government    联邦政府
State government        州政府
The U.S. Supreme Court 美国最高法院
Committee  委员会  
Amendment 修改；修正案

- Veto 
  a power vested in a chief executive to prevent permanently or temporarily the enactment of measures passed by a legislature

- Impeach       弹劾
  To charge a public official with improper conduct or wrongdoing in office
 
**Basic Principles of American Politics**

1. Separation of Powers  三权分立
2. Checks and Balances  制衡原则
3. Federalism  联邦制


Baron de Montesquieu (1689-1755) 
In The Spirit of Laws 《论法的精神》

**Separation of Powers & Checks and Balances**

- The Executive Branch
The President
- The Legislative Branch
The Congress
- The Judicial Branch
The U.S. Supreme Court

**Federalism 联邦制**

The founding fathers in USA creatively developed the doctrine of separation of powers. 

Federalism means a division of powers between the federal government and state government. 

**Delegated powers of the Federal Government**

1. To take care of the welfare and defend the security of the whole nation: 
   - to manage foreign affairs;
   - to raise and maintain armed forces;
   - to declare war and conclude peace; 
   - to collect taxes;
   - to regulate foreign trade;
2. To deal with problems concerning two or more states

**Powers of State Governments**

To pass state laws and maintain state police force;

To levy taxes to cover state expenditures;

To maintain public schools and give financial help to state universities;

**The Constitutional Convention **

The Constitutional Convention was held in Philadelphia in 1787. 

1. September 17, 1787 the Constitutional Day

2. The day that the U.S. Constitution was passed by the Constitutional Convention.

**Amendments to U.S. Constitution**

The Constitution is open to amendment.

There are currently 27 amendments to the U.S. Constitution.

*The Bill of Rights（权利法案）* became the first ten amendments to the Constitution in 1791

**Amendments to U.S. Constitution（修正法案）**

The 13th amendment abolished slavery system. (1865)

The 14th amendment gave African Americans citizenship. (1868)

The 15th amendment gave African Americans the right to vote. (1870)

**The Legislative Branch: U.S. Congress**

The Senate 参议院

The House of Representatives 众议院

1. The Senate
	- membership：100 (2 from each state)
	- tenure：6 years
	- qualifications：30 years old;9 years’ citizenship;Resident of the represented state
	- chairperson：Vice President（副总统）
2. The House 
	- membership：435
 (distributed by population)
	- tenure：2 years
	- qualifications：25 years old;7 years’ citizenship;Resident of the represented state
	- chairperson：The Speaker

**The Executive Branch: U.S. President**

U.S. President is known as the First Citizen, with his wife as the First Lady.

The office of U.S. President is one of the most powerful in the world.

- To issue rules, regulations and instructions, called executive orders
- To appoint and dismiss federal officials with the approval of the Senate
- To raise, train, supervise and deploy American armed forces
- To sign treaties with foreign countries with the consent of the Senate

**U.S. President’s Legislative Powers**

- To write bills necessary for certain programs
- To sign or veto any bill passed by Congress

**U.S. President’s Judicial Powers**

- To appoint federal judges with the consent of the Senate
- To pardon anyone who has been convicted of violating federal laws

**Executive Agencies and Commissions**

FBI:Federal Bureau of Investigation联邦调查局    

a federal law enforcement agency that is the principal investigative arm of the Department of Justice 

CIA:Central Intelligence Agency 中央情报局

providing secret information about the world’s trouble spots to the president

NASA:National Aeronautics and Space Administration  国家航空航天局 

 in charge of the nation’s space programs

**The Judicial Branch**

94 District Courts
12 Courts of Appeals
The Supreme court

The US Supreme Court is the only court established by the US Constitution and has the power to interpret(解释) the Constitution.

It consists of the Chief Justice（大法官）and eight associate（副，association：协会） justices（最高法院法官）appointed by the President with the approval of the Senate.

The Two Major Political Parties

- The Democratic Party：The Democratic Party tends to be liberal.（党徽：驴）（代表资本家，但是比较接地气）
- The Republican Party：The Republican Party tends to be conservative.（党徽：大象）（大财团：垄断资本家）

美国 实行总统制，总统选举 每四年举行一次。美国总统选举制度复杂，过程漫长。选举的主要程序包括预选、各党召开全国代表大会确定总统候选人、总统候选人竞选、全国选民投票选出总统“选举人”、“选举人”成立选举人团投票表决正式选举总统和当选总统就职典礼等几个阶段。 

The presidential election is held every 4 years.

1. Primary elections
2. Party conventions
3. General election
4. General vote

Popular vote  普选票

the number of qualified voters for a US presidential candidate

Electoral vote 选举团票 （538张选票）

the number of electors for a US presidential candidate

The “Winner-Gets-All” Rule 赢者全得